"fftMPI documentation"_Manual.html

Quick tour :h3

You can quickly try out fftMPI if you

build the fftMPI library
build the test programs that use it
run the test programs (apps) :ul

You can do all 3 steps in one command from the test dir, as follows:

% cd fftmpi/test
% sh Run.sh :pre

Or you can do it step-by-step (below).

The Run.sh script builds the apps in double precision for all
languages (C++, C, Fortran, Python) and uses the provided KISS library
for 1d FFTs.  If you want to use single precision or another 1d FFT
library, see the 3-step process below.  If support for some language
is not available on your system, those test apps will simply not
build.

It then runs each of the apps for one FFT size in all the languages,
both in serial and parallel.  The apps allow for a variety of
command-line args, which are discussed on the "runtest"_runtest.html
doc page.

IMPORTANT NOTE: To run the Python apps, you must enable Python to find
the fftMPI shared library and src/fftmpi.py wrapper script.  You must
also have mpi4py installed in your Python so it can pass an MPI
communicator to fftMPI.  See the "usage"_usage.html doc page for
details on both these topics.

You can examine the source code of any of the apps in the test dir to
see the logic and syntax for using fftMPI from your application.  They
invoke all the methods provided by fftMPI.

:line

Step 1 :h4

Build fftMPI with one of these make commands.  This should produce two
shared-library lib*.so files, for 2d and 3d FFTs.  They will use the
default KISS FFT library for 1d FFTs, and operate on double-precision
complex data.

% cd fftmpi/src
% make :pre

The builds will be performed with mpicxx, which uses whatever MPI you
have installed on your system, and wraps the C++ compiler installed on
your system.

The "compile"_compile.html doc page explains how to choose a different
1d FFT library and/or change to single precision.

:line

Step 2 :h4

Build the test apps, written in C++, C, and Fortran 90.  This should
produce 6 executables: test3d, test2d, test3d_c, test2d_c, test3d_f90,
test2d_f90.  Test3d and test2d are C++ executables.  Two Python test
apps, test2d.py and test3d.py, are also in the test dir.

% cd fftmpi/test
% make :pre

As with step 1, The builds will be performed with mpicxx, which uses
whatever MPI you have installed on your system, and wraps the
C++, C, or Fortran compilers installed on your system.

The "buildtest"_buildtest.html doc page explains how to change to
single precision.

IMPORTANT NOTE: You must use build the fftMPI library and the test
apps with the same precision setting.

:line

Step 3 :h4

Run the test programs from the test dir. 

See the Run.sh file for examples of how to launch each of the apps in
the various languages.  See the "runtest"_runtest.html doc page for a
list of command-line arguments recognized by all the apps.
